Started this on 11-18-22

currently am working on the input randomization.
it is not working correctly. My hunch is that it switches what key is at what input before the next update call
so maybe it is calling move on the same one multiple times because it thinks you just pressed two keys very fast.

I made the update check to make sure all keys were released before checking for input again.
that didnt seem to do anything so that must not be the issue.

I fixed the issue of multiple calls, but it seems the arrows are still off.
I made a bool that if true shuffles at the end of update instead of calling the shuffle function as the key
is pressed. I could have done states but I felt this was pretty simple.

Im very happy I fixed it. such a simple fix. Deffinitly saw a great example of why its 
important to do a state pattern instead of calling things directly though.

Now the arrow indicators are off sometimes

I have a list of arrows
I need to see which input index corresponds with which arrow

loop through the inputkets array. The right key will always be at index 0. 
The order of indicies array determines which side the arrow should be on.
if the first number in the indicies array is 2, the up arrow should be on the right side.

whatever indicies is at 0 will always be right


I have an array of randomized numbers 1-3.
I use these numbers as indicies to access an array of key inputs, in order to randomize which keys goes which direction
I want to use the array of randomized numbers similarily to access an array of arrow sprites
The arrow sprites should be located on the corresponding side of the player sprite that
the keys in the key array move the player to when accessed from the randomized numbers array.

loop through arrows
arrow at 0 index should be equal to the direction key accessed by the 0 element of randomized number array

IDEAS
give multiplier for consecutive 1/4 beats and addition for 1/2 beats

TODO
I need to write a good pathfinding system for enemies. go around unwalkable tiles


F cost = distance from starting node
H cost = distace from end node
G cost = f cost + h cost


for timer problem?
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10460471/metronome-precision-algorithm-maths


ideas:

difficulty
-song tempo
-enemy move buffer

add menu screen
add ability to read in tempo from wav files
add portal tile
add score that increases if you stay on beat
add powerups that will kill one enemy. spawn them when you get score high enough

TODO:
make it so enemies cant share a tile as this could confuse player

Add condition in case of song finishing!!!

        //add reading of bpm from acid chunk of wav file if ableton includes that information
        double bpm = 82;



Next Steps:

-Add in double time multiplier for advanced players, need to make it so timer can check eigth notes
but also wont move if its not a quarter note DONE

maybe have the sixteenth note only available when comboscore is perfectly divisible by 10
or something so players have to pay attention to score

also the character should only start blinking on sixteenths if the player has a comboscore 
greater then 10 so newer players dont feel bad and skilled players are rewarded

make it so player can only hit the sixteenth note if they previously hit the quarter note

-add in portal tiles

-add in tiles that close for a bit after you or enemy passes through

-add enemies that move in predictable direction

TODO:

If player hits 5 consecutive sixteenth notes add a bonus or something

Add tiles that can kill enemies

-have a list of active trap tiles, and inactive trap tiles in grid manager
-if player is on an inactive tile, set it to active on the next beat (use states)
activate active deactivate inactive
-have enemies check if they are on active tiles, if they are die
-have player check if they are on active tile, if they are set player state to dead

maybe these tiles are simply on a timer and the player does not have control over when they are active?
I think with control the game becomes much to easy.

Add file reader system to start creating levels

create game console - follow jeffs example probobly

longterm:

Create a level editor

For levels, instead of score collect all the keys and make it to the exit

maybe score is still a thing in regular levels, but once all the keys are collected
the beat doesnt matter anymore and you can just book it to the exit?

maybe if you perform a tile swap on a projectile it turns around and
can now kill the enemy. Acts as one of your own projectiles

increase difficulty after each completed song on endless

add a really fast enemy that moves every sixteenth note and quarter note that spawns
after so many songs on endless


